---
layout: post
title: Big Idea 5.5
description: Popcorn Hack
type: issues
comments: True
---

### Popcorn Hack 1
What are some ways to protect intellectual property? Write down what you can remember in a notebook.
>
- Register Your Intellectual Property
- Using Watermarks
- License Agreements
- Monitor and Enforce Rights
- Use digital rights management (DRM) tools

### Popcorn Hack 2
- Define a MIT License
- What would one for your own repo look like

> - MIT License: free software license that grants users broad rights to use, copy, modify, and distribute software

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Trevor Vick

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

### Popcorn Hack 3
- Define a Creative Common License
- What are exceptions to the copyright law

> - A CC License is a public copyright license that a creator would use when they want to give others the right to use their work
> - An exception is Fair Use that allows the use of copyrighted material without permission for limited purposes

### Popcorn Hack 4
With a partner, name as many ways as you can remember to prevent copyright infringement. Write what you came up with in a jupyter notebook. Also write down who you talked to.

> I talked with Wyatt Z, and we discussed creating your own content, understanding Fair Use, check copyright license before use.

### Homework Hack

#### Task 1

> Apache License

#### Task 2

> I chose the Apache License for my personal repository because it allows others to freely use and modify my code while requiring them to maintain copyright and license notices. This ensures that my contributions are recognized while still encouraging collaboration and innovation. Additionally, the Apache License provides an explicit grant of patent rights, which adds legal protection for both me and future developers who build upon my work.

#### Task 3

> I added the license to [my repository](https://github.com/Tvick22/CSPBlog1/blob/main/LICENSE)

#### Task 4

> Our Pilot City Project is a crowdsourcing app to improve the roads of Poway. We will provide a data insight to users to inform them of the current situation of the roads. There will be a crowdsourcing feature to "rate the roads".

#### Task 5

> I added a license to the [Pilot City Repository](https://github.com/Tvick22/DataMango/blob/main/LICENSE)
